Our Old Testament reading tonight comes from Isaiah the ninth chapter, verses two through seven.
And we are excited to welcome one of our newer members and as one of our students at the Candler School of Theology, Maya Su.
I will be reading in both English and in Mandarin Chinese.
The people who walked in darkness
have seen a great light.
Those who lived in the land of deep darkness and then light has shined.
You have multiplied the nation.
You have increased its joy.
They rejoice before you and with joy at the harvest as people exalt when dividing plunder.
For the yoke of their burden
and the bar across their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor, you have broken as on the day of media.
For all the boots of the tramping warriors and all the garments wrote in blood shall be burned as fuel for the fire.
For a child has been born for us, a son given to us
authority rests upon his shoulders, and he is named Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
His authority shall grow continually, and there shall be endless peace for the throne of David and his kingdom.
He will establish and uphold it with justice
and with righteousness from this time onward, and forevermore.
The zeal of the Lord, of hosts, will do this.
Say, hey, I'm John.
Since of the byshin, can't you know that one?
True, that's the injury, the young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young, young
Haus-yeon, shou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou-kou.
When you're young, you're young.
You're young.
Please stand for the reading of the gospel.
from the Gospel of Luke the second chapter, verses one through 20.
I'm reading from the King James version.
And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed.
And this taxing was first made when Serenius was governor of Syria.
And all went to be taxed everyone into his own city.
And Joseph, Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem.
because he was of the house and lineage of David.
To be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, being great with child.
And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she would be delivered.
And she brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger.
because there was no room for them in the end.
And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night.
And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them and the glory of the Lord shone around about them, and they were sore afraid.
And the angel said unto them, Fear not.
For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.
For unto you is born this day in the city of David, a savior, which is Christ the Lord.
And this shall be a sign unto you.
ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger."
And suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, glory to God in the highest and on earth peace.
Good will toward men.
And it came to past.
came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven.
The shepherds said to one another, let us go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us.
And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph in the babe lying in a manger.
And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child.
And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds.
But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart.
And the shepherds returned glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
Let us pray.
Lord, here we are to worship, here we are to bow down.
Here we are to say that you are indeed our worthy and our holy God.
And we have come tonight, oh God, to give glory and honor to you to sing glory to God in the highest.
Lord, come and speak.
Have your way, for we need a word from you.
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.
Amen.
You may be seated.
In parts of Alaska, there are a series of about 67 days from mid-November to mid-January called dark winter.
There is no sun.
Can you imagine that?
No sun, no light, absolute pure darkness for 67 days.
Can you imagine not being able to tell the night from day based on the rising and the setting of the sun?
Some residents say that time doesn't matter during dark winter.
that on those dark days all you can do is be still and try not to freeze to death.
They say your only job is to stay warm and not to die.
And they say that it is a full-time job.
Many of the people who experience those dark days during dark winter live off the grid.
They don't have cars, no easily accessible utilities.
Light and warmth comes from a wood stove after they themselves have gone out in the woods and cut down trees to ensure that they will have just a glimmer, a flicker of a flame.
The well-equipped ones have generators, and they have created systems of light.
But they spend the rest of the year making sure that they are prepared and making sure that their man-made systems will work and are not rendered obsolete by the complete darkness.
and deathly cold.
Others just give up trying to survive the darkness.
They leave and relocate for those 67 days, and can you blame them?
They say dark winter feels like death.
And the truth of the matter is that a lot of people don't make it through.
You know why?
people are created in and for the light.
You see, in Genesis chapter one at the very beginning of the Bible, just a few words in, we've learned that before God created anything else.
First, God created light.
Don't you remember these words when God began to create the heavens of the earth or in other translations?
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth and the earth was complete chaos and darkness covered the face of the deep while a wind from God swept over the face of the waters.
Then God said, let there
be light.
And there was light.
And God said that the light was good.
And God separated light from darkness and called the light day and the darkness night.
And there was evening and there was morning.
And that was the very first day of creation.
But as the people evolve, they find a way, Miss Ruby, to fall back into darkness.
By the time we get to the prophet Isaiah, the people are looking for a way out of darkness.
You see, Isaiah chapter 8 teaches us that there will be a time in our lives where there is darkness.
And there will be a time where we will need to wait for the Lord who might be hiding God's face from Jacob.
And that we will need to hope in this Lord during the time of darkness.
The scripture says in chapter eight of Isaiah says, they will pass through the land, greatly distressed and hungry, but they will see only distress and darkness.
the gloom of anguish, and they will be thrust into thick darkness.
Anybody been there?
Anybody know anything about darkness?
But when we get to Isaiah chapter nine that Minister Maya read so beautifully for us in English and in Chinese, there's a breakthrough.
It's a promise kept.
It's a promise for the past, for the present, and for the future.
The light is the only thing that breaks darkness.
You didn't hear what I said just now.
Isaiah says that the people were thrust into a deep darkness and the people of Alaska know about this 67 days in deep black darkness.
You can't see your hand in front of your face and the wind is often blowing and it's so cold that it doesn't even register on the thermometer anymore.
And other people know about when it's so dark because grandma died or mom died or dad died or cousin died or because I lost my job or
because things aren't going the way I thought they might be going at this point in my life or because I'm bothered by the situations that are happening in and through and around my neighborhood, there will be darkness in this life.
And yet the promise always comes to fruition.
God cannot lie.
All that God can do is tell us the truth.
And God says that even when you are in thick darkness, remember that the light shall come.
You remember what shell means, right?
It's not optional.
It's not a thing that might happen.
It's not a thing that may come to pass eventually, but shell means that it will no matter what.
And there is nothing that can stop the light from coming.
Light is a breakthrough.
Isaiah said, the people who walked in darkness have seen a great light, not just any light, not just a little bit of light, but have seen a great light, the kind of light that breaks through when you think that darkness is the end of the story.
Those who lived in a land of deep darkness, the scripture says, on them light has shine.
What does it mean?
The delight shines.
Well, the scripture says it means that you will have increased joy.
How many of you could use some increased joy?
I don't know about you, but I could use some increased joy.
It says that we, the people of God, will rejoice before God.
We will rejoice in this light.
We will rejoice because God has taken our burdens off of our shoulders, and the rod of the oppressor shall be broken, and we will go and live in endless peace.
The darkness you see now is not the rest of the story.
And then it shifts because see, you hear in the first part of Isaiah 9, it says, what is to come, right?
the promises that are being made, you shall see a great light, you shall have light shone on, you shall see the bar of the oppressor broken, you shall have increased joy.
But then it shifts, it says, for a child, not will be born.
Do you see it?
Do you hear it?
For a child has been born.
Not a child will be born.
Not a child will come eventually and maybe bring you a little bit of good news.
Maybe, you know, those little bitty flashlights that don't really do anything.
It's not like that.
It's like the spotlights in here that when they light up, you can see the dust in the walls.
I bought myself a new vacuum cleaner for Christmas.
Those of you who are partnered up, let me just tell you, do not buy your partner a vacuum cleaner for Christmas.
It won't end well for you.
But I happen to like vacuum cleaners.
And I bought myself a new vacuum cleaner for Christmas.
It went on a sale I've never seen before.
I've been watching this vacuum cleaner for several years.
And it finally came down to a price that I could consider
Making a purchase.
So I did it.
I took the plunge.
I bought the vacuum cleaner.
And guess what?
It has what it calls an optic light on the front of it.
You don't understand how this is good news.
Because see, I have passed the threshold where I can see little things.
The type on my iPad has had to be zoomed up and I have had to have my glasses changed and maybe changed again and some of you will know once you get to a certain age they put lines in your glasses and now I have two or three lines in my glasses.
I just don't let y'all see them.
I'm there.
And when you vacuum, sometimes you miss things.
Because you can't see what's happening in that corner when you have three or four lines in your glasses.
Can I get a witness in here?
But the vacuum cleaner has an optic light on it.
And it is showing me things that I have never seen before.
I didn't know there were lines like that in my wood floors.
I've never seen them before because I couldn't quite see without the proper light.
For a child has been born.
For the light is shown.
And the sun is given to us an authority repressed upon his shoulders, and he shall be named Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
Over 350 people have been killed in the United States in mass shootings this year.
more than that are killed every day in the Gaza Strip.
In San Sahara, Africa, and literally all over this world, people are starving to death, people are starving to death at the mag entrance.
There shall be endless peace.
When the light comes, he shall establish and uphold it with justice and righteousness, and onward, this time and forevermore, the zeal of the Lord God will do this.
And then the Gospel writer says, and it came to pass.
Now this is something really important because only the King James version of the Bible puts it this way.
Everybody else skips over the, and it came the past part.
They just go straight into the decree that went out to Caesar Augustus.
And you know that if you've been in any of my Bible studies, I'm not a huge fan of the King James version of the Bible.
But on Christmas Eve, I love it.
It came to pass.
The Greek here means that it came to fruition, that it came into being, that the promise was kept.
What is it?
A child is born.
A son is given who shall be called Wonderful Council Prince of Peace, mighty God, everlasting Father, and there shall be endless peace.
Those people who live through a dark winter in Alaska say that when the sun reappears after 67 days of absence, that it's like a birth.
You know what I'm talking about Lisa, don't you?
You've lived in Alaska.
Everything, not just the sun.
Everything comes to life.
Not the animals, the plants, the rivers, the mountains, even the people.
Take on new life a new way of being a new way to show up a new way to be who they are in the world Everything comes to life Without Christmas There is no light And without light
There is no life.
Light changes everything.
The light of the world comes to us in utter complete darkness.
The Christ child, Jesus, the light of the world, the wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting father, prince of peace, comes in darkness and sets off a light show like we've never seen before.
Luke 2 says, it comes to pass.
It was fulfilled.
In those days, the promise of light became reality.
The weight is over.
The light has come!
So we have to stop allowing the darkness to overwhelm us.
Shepherds.
Shepherds stink.
They primarily live outside with stinky sheep.
They live on the side of the mountain where there's not a lot of running water.
No hot showers, Miss Ruby.
They're usually covered in muck and mire.
And they are usually awake when it's dark.
Trying to make sure that the wolves don't get a hold.
of the sheep.
And the scripture says the shepherds
They were doing their job.
They were keeping watch at night and trying to protect the sheep.
And all of a sudden the angels showed up.
And when the angels show up, light shows up.
And when the angels showed up, there was light in the darkness.
And the shepherds saw a kind of light that they had not seen before.
And when they saw the light that they had not seen before, they knew that God was trying to get their attention.
God got their attention.
They went off course.
They went off task.
They did something that they didn't expect.
They went looking for a baby.
When's the last time you went looking for a baby?
You're here.
Most people who come to charge on Christmas Eve come because they know about Jesus.
But when's the last time you went looking for the baby Jesus?
When's the last time the light got your attention in such a way that you went off task?
You went off course because you had to.
You could not be still anymore.
You could not keep doing the same old, same old stuff all the time.
You had to go after the light.
You had to go looking for something beyond the status quo.
You had to go looking
beyond the darkness because you knew that there was something there that would deliver you.
Light changes everything.
It changes perspective.
It changes appearance.
It changes knowledge.
It changes perception.
Light changes everything because it allows you to see something.
It allows you to see justice.
It allows you to see righteousness.
It allows you to see hope.
It allows you to see peace.
It allows you to see love.
It allows you to see joy.
It allows you to see light and light.
Light allows us to see Jesus at work in the midst of all of the things that are going on in our lives.
Light allows us to survive the dark winters of our lives.
Light shows us some things that we don't want to see, and light shows us some things that we don't want to know, but yet their scripture reminds us, do not be afraid!
The person who should have been most afraid.
She puts praising God, praising God for the new baby, praising God for this disruption in her life, praising God for the light of the world.
What have you been doing?
Seek the light.
How do you seek the light?
Praise the Lord.
Praise the Lord in expectation.
Praise the Lord in advance.
Praise the Lord knowing that you know, that you know, that you know, that you know, that you know, that you know, that you know, that your praise of God leads to light.
And light turns the world right side up.
The songwriter put it like this.
He said, light of the world.
You step down into darkness.
Open our eyes and let us see.
Beauty that made this heart adore you.
Come on, Mr. Nard.
Hope of a life spent with you.
And the next verse that a lot of us don't know says, says, King of all days, oh, so highly exalted, glorious in heaven above.
Unbelievable, you came to the earth, you created all for love's sake, ha ha, became poor.
And then it says, I know you know it, I know you know it.
Come on, Mr. Nark.
It says, here I am to worship.
Right?
Here I am to bow down.
Come on y'all help me.
Here I am.
to see some more life, to see the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, to see the mighty good shepherd, the merciful God, to see that God is still God.
That's what Christmas is about.
It's not about all the stuff.
It's not even about Santa Claus.
But it is indeed about the light of the world, opening our eyes so that we might be reminded that there is indeed what?
Yes.
Jesus is born.
That's the best news I've ever heard.
How about you?
Jesus is born.
The light has come.
Nothing will ever be the same.
Rejoice!
Amen.